
#           Steps to setup the server and connection of sqlite3 data base

1.  Create server folder and inside three folders for app, migrations, database.

2.  For using the ruby on roda server download & install ruby with dev kit
    link: https://rubyinstaller.org/downloads/
    currently installed version is : ruby 3.2.3
    command to install : gem install bundler   

3. Create a Gemfile with necessary dependencies, and do bundle install for Gemfile.lock
    ruby offers the bundler it will allow to bundle the Gemfile.

4.  steps to run the server 
        1. After gem install if try to run the server inside the server/app directory:
            bundle exec puma    
                You will see : ERROR: No application configured, nothing to run
                    For that configure the app

        2. create config.ru file inside the server/app/ and add the code to 
                1.Sets up environment variables and loads required gems.
                2.Configures the application settings and includes route definitions.
                3.Constructs a Rack middleware stack with CORS handling and optional auto-reloading, then runs the Roda application.

        3. Now if try to run the server inside app folder you will get ERROR    
            cannot load such file : .env.rb
                For that    
                    1. create file called .env.rb in the root directory.

                Now you see error: cannot load such file : routes
                    1. create routes.rb file inside app folder and add the 
                    2. Add the code for this operations:
                        1. Sets up environment variables and loads required gems.
                        2. Requires necessary files (defaults.rb, models.rb) containing application logic.
                        3. Defines a Roda application (App) with plugins for rendering and JSON handling.
                        4. Defines routes for handling requests, including parsing JSON data from the request body.
                        5. Prints a message when the root route is accessed.
                
                Now you see error: cannot load such file : defaults
                    1. create defaults.rb file inside app folder and add the 
                    2. Add the code for this operations:
                        1. Sets up a Roda application (App) with plugins for indifferent parameters 
                            handling and JSON response formatting.
                        2. Defines a method (indifferent_data) to recursively convert incoming data 
                            into a format where keys can be accessed as symbols or strings interchangeably.
                        3. Defines a module (Util) containing a method (getUniqueName) to generate a 
                            unique name based on the current timestamp and a random number.

                Now you see error: cannot load such file : models
                    1. create models.rb file inside app folder and add the 
                    2. Add the code for this operations:    
                        1. Requires the Sequel and BCrypt gems for database operations and password hashing, 
                            respectively.
                        2.  Sets up the database connection using a SQLite file (reactRubyonRoda.sqlite).
                        3.  Configures Sequel to automatically manage timestamps for model records.
                        4.  Defines a User model class representing a table in the database.
                        5.  Implements a register class method in the User model to handle user registration:
                        6.  Validates that required user attributes (username, email, mobile number) are provided.
                        7.  Searches for an existing user with the provided username.
                        8.  Creates or updates a user record with the provided data, including hashing the password for security.
                        9.  Returns the user object.

                    If you run again you see: Sequel::DatabaseError: SQLite3::SQLException: no such table: users

                before running the server again follow the step 5 for migration files, sqlite database and user table creation.

                    

5. Create a rakefile.rb for migration from migrations files to database
        1. Add the code for this operations:
            1.  Loads required dependencies such as YAML and Shellwords.
            2.  Sets up the database connection using SQLite.
            3.  Defines a Rake task for migrating the database using Sequel migrations:
            4.  Allows migration to the latest version or a specific version specified as an argument.
            5.  Uses Sequel's Migrator to execute migrations stored in the server/migrations directory.
            6.  Prints messages indicating the migration process.

        2. Create a migration file example 
            1. create a 01_create_users.rb file inside the migrations folder

        3. Create a sqlite database and users table 
            run command inside server/app folder    
                rake db:migrate    
            note: use SQLite Viewer extension to see the database table in vscode


6. Now run the server inside server/app use the command: bundle exec puma
    1. Now server will get start in localhost:9292
    2. To see the root route puts message open the above port in browser, message will shown in 
        server terminal.
